## Introduction

`qaic-runner` is a CLI (command line inferface) tool designed to run inference on the device using precompiled binary (also called QPC (Qualcomm Program Container) binary).
It provides various options and functionalities to facilitate inference and performance analysis. In this document, we will discuss the different options available in `qaic-runner` tool, their default values and provide examples for their usage.

## Options and Default values

| Parameter                      | Description                                                                                             | Default  |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `-d, --aic-device-id <id>	`    | Specify AIC device ID.	                                                                               | 0        |  
| `-D, --dev-list <qid>[:<qid>]	`| Map of device IDs for a multi-device network.	                                                       | 0[:1]    |  

## Usage Examples

### 1. Running inference with Random inputs

```shell
sudo /opt/qti-aic/exec/qaic-runner -t /opt/qti-aic/test-data/aic100/v2/4nsp/4nsp-quant-resnet50/  -a 3 -n 5000 -d 0 -v
```
- talk about what is happening in this example. explain what is n,d,v,a etc.
- Do you want to be generic such as `/path/to/qpc` or provide above example since the qpc is part of sdk?
- Here since input is not provided, the tool randomly generates data of input size. The input size and type can be determined with  `qaic-qpc`

```shell
/opt/qti-aic/tools/qaic-qpc validate -i ./BERT_LARGE/programqpc.bin
```

### 2. Running inference on a set of inputs

Before running inference, it is necessary to convert the inputs to the appropriate format based on input size and type. These the steps you can follow

#### a. Retriving information from compiled binary. 

Talk about this tool and what is outputs. 
```shell
!/opt/qti-aic/tools/qaic-qpc validate -i ./BERT_LARGE/programqpc.bin
```

#### b. Converting inputs to .raw format

blah blah

```shell
sudo /opt/qti-aic/exec/qaic-runner -t /opt/qti-aic/test-data/aic100/v2/4nsp/4nsp-quant-resnet50/ -i /opt/qti-aic/test-data/aic100/v2/4nsp/4nsp-quant-resnet50/user_idx0_input_tensor_1.bin -a 3 -n 5000 -d 0 -v
```
- talk about what is happening in this example. explain what is n,d,v,a etc.
- Do you want to be generic such as `/path/to/qpc` or provide above example since the qpc is part of sdk?
- For which model do you want me to show how the .raw file is generated? Do I need to show a snippet of code here in python on how .raw file is generated? OR do we just point to an example notebook?

### 3. Generating dumps for latency capture

- aic-profiling-format : latency
- aic-profiling-out-dir : output directory for latency capture (needs to exist before this command is run)
- aic-profiling-start-iter : Set this value high enough to start capturing samples after device warmup (~250mS)
- aic-profiling-num-samples : # of samples to be captured. Can be set greater than # of inferences

```shell
!/opt/qti-aic/exec/qaic-runner -t ./BERT_LARGE -a 8 -S 1 -d 0 \ #-i inputFiles/input.raw \
--aic-profiling-format latency --aic-profiling-out-dir ./BERT_LARGE_STATS \
--aic-profiling-start-iter 100 --aic-profiling-num-samples 99999 --time 20 
```
Reuse - Qualcomm_Cloud_AI100_BERT_onboarding.ipynb for this. 

## Conclusion

`qaic-runner` CLI tool is primarily intended for performance testing purposes. For actual inference tasks, it is recommended to utilize the Python or C++ APIs, depending on your preferred technology stack. 
