# Model quantization

Generally, pre-trained models are available and saved in FP32 precision. However, for better performance and power efficiency, it is desirable to execute the model in FP16 or INT8 or mixed precision. While INT8 causes some accuracy drop compared to FP32/FP16, it does offer significant performance and power efficiency benefits.

The Cloud AI 100 compiler supports INT8 with many static, post training quantization options for achieving better quantized accuracy and further supports mixed precision (combination of INT8, FP16, and FP32). It is highly recommended that the user does not use FP32 in any production/commercial grade deployments.

The Cloud AI 100 supports quantizing a model using profile guided quantization (PGQ). If the model is to be compiled by the Cloud AI 100 compiler, the first step is to generate a PGQ profile and then use the profile to quantize and compile the model.

## Quantization methods

It is observed that neural network architectures show better accuracies to different quantization methods. There is no single technique that works best for all neural network architectures. The Cloud AI 100 compiler supports a variety of options for quantization.

### Quantization schema
Cloud AI 100 supports the following schemas for activations and weights:
> Asymmetric
  * Maps the floating data to quantized ranges not necessarily centered on 0. This is the default quantization schema.
> Symmetric
  * Maps the floating data to ranges centered on 0.
	* In practice, this means that the symmetric schema may extend the range it needs to capture to make sure 0.0 is at the center of that range.
	* Therefore, this schema potentially wastes some encoding space to enforce the symmetric property, but it comes with the property that the offset is always equal to zero.
> Symmetric with uint8
  * Produces ranges where the offset is always equal to zero but allows the quantized ranges to be either int8 [-128; 127] or uint8 [0; 255].
  * In practice, this schema represents uint8 ranges using int8 ranges with an offset of -128.
  * Therefore, when using this schema, the produced profile will have two kinds of ranges: one with an offset of 0 and the other with an offset of -128.
> Symmetric with power of 2 scale
  * Produces quantized ranges centered on 0 (symmetric) but also restricts the scale parameter to be a power of 2.
  * Restricting the scale parameter to be a power of 2 might result in a poor exploitation of the quantized range (poor accuracy) but has the potential to provide a better performance.

While four schemas are described, the most frequently used schemas are:
1.	Asymmetric activations with symmetric weights
2.	Asymmetric activations with asymmetric weights
3.	Symmetric_with_UINT8 activations with Symmetric_with_UINT8 weights

### Quantization type
The Cloud AI 100 compiler offers,
* Channel-wise (per-channel) quantization for convolution operators
* Row-wise (per-row) quantization for fully connected layers/linear layers and
* Layer-wise (per-tensor) quantization for both convolution and linear layers.

### Quantization calibration
The following profile-guided quantization calibrations are available:
* Min-Max (default)
* KLMinimizationV1
* KLMinimizationV2 (Entropy)
* MSE – Mean-Square Error
* SQNR – Signal-to-Quantization-Noise Ratio
* Percentile (99.9, 99.99, 99.999, 99.9999); Although only 4 percentile values are mentioned, the Cloud AI 100 compiler supports any float value in the range of 90.000000 to 100 in steps of 0.000001.

Mean-Square Error (MSE) measures the average squared difference between the estimated values and the actual value. Signal-to-Quantization-Noise Ratio (SQNR) measures the ratio of meaningful input signal to meaningless or unwanted quantized input noise. Entropy calibration is a minor variant of KL Minimization criterion. Percentile calibration clips the min and max of the range of the tensor at one of the 99.9, 99.99, 99.999, 99.9999 percentile values.

For every given model, all calibration methods can be swept across to see which one provides the best accuracy.

Please refer to this example [Jupyter Notebook](https://github.qualcomm.com/qranium/cloud-ai/tree/main/tutorials/NLP/Quantization-Intermediate) for end to end flow of,
1.	Accuracy Evaluator Tool to sweep across all the quatization options to see which one provides the best accuracy.
2.	Analyzer helps us to find the sensitivity of each node, which is causing drop in accuarcy.
3.	Run Evaluator with mixed precision to see if it gets to the target accuarcy.
