# Pre and Post Processing 

The exported ML models require some kind of pre-processing on the inputs before it can be passed to the model, and post-processing on the model outputs to make valid use of the outputs.
Usually this can be done on the host using libraries like Numpy, PyTorch and Tensorflow.

## Computer Vision

Most of the times, the CV models are trained with images with pixel values normalized to values between 0 and 1, rather than 0 to 255. If such a model is compiled and run on AIC, we can do pre-processing of the image:

```python
import numpy as np
from PIL import Image

img = Image.open("image.png")
img = np.array(img)
img = img / 255

# Run the model with img
```

## NLP

For NLP models, the input string cannot be passed directly to the model.
Tokenization is done to convert the string to input tokens.
For sequence generation models, the outputs of the models will be logits values which need to be decoded based on the requirement.
This needs to be done in a loop to keep generating the next token.
The following examples show how to encode and decode for NLP models:

### Greedy decoding

This example shows how to run [GPT2 model](https://huggingface.co/gpt2) with greedy decoding in python after compiling the model into a QPC (Qualcomm Program Container).
The QPC is assumed to be compiled with sequence length of 128, i.e. it takes inputs: `input_ids` and `attention_mask` and provies outputs: `logits`.
Since the AOT compilation is done with static shape tensors, we need to handle padding.
The following example showcases the same:

```python
import sys
import platform
sys.path.append(f"/opt/qti-aic/dev/lib/{platform.machine()}")
import qaicrt
import numpy as np
from transformers import AutoTokenizer

# Create context for running the model
devices = qaicrt.QIDList([0])  # Change device ID if needed
context = qaicrt.Context(devices)

# Load the program
qpc = qaicrt.Qpc("<qpc_path>")
assert qpc is not None
mappings = qpc.getBufferMappings()
program = qaicrt.Program(context, devices[0], qpc)
execObj = qaicrt.ExecObj(context, program)

# Input prompt and encoding
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("gpt2")
tokenizer.pad_token_id = tokenizer.eos_token_id
input_str = input("Prompt: ")
max_length = 128
inputs = tokenizer(
    [input_str],
    padding="max_length",
    max_length=max_length,
    return_tensors="np",
)
input_ids = inputs["input_ids"]
attention_mask = inputs["attention_mask"]
cur_length = attention_mask.sum().item()
next_token = input_ids[0, cur_length - 1]

# Create qbuffers list to pass input and output buffers
qbuffers = [None, None, None]
# Set output buffer
qbuffers[2] = qaicrt.QBuffer(bytes(mappings[2].size))

print(input_str, end="", flush=True)
while next_token != tokenizer.eos_token_id and cur_length < max_length:
    # Set input buffers
    qbuffers[0] = qaicrt.QBuffer(input_ids.tobytes())
    qbuffers[1] = qaicrt.QBuffer(attention_mask.tobytes())
    assert execObj.setData(qbuffers) == qaicrt.QStatus.QS_SUCCESS

    # Run the model, get outputs, decode and print
    assert execObj.run(qbuffers) == qaicrt.QStatus.QS_SUCCESS
    status, data = execObj.getData()
    assert status == qaicrt.QStatus.QS_SUCCESS
    logits = np.frombuffer(bytes(data[-1]), np.float32).reshape((1, max_length, -1))
    next_token = logits[0, cur_length - 1].argmax()
    print(tokenizer.decode(next_token, skip_special_tokens=True), end="", flush=True)

    # Set inputs for next iteration
    input_ids[0, cur_length] = next_token
    attention_mask[0, cur_length] = 1
    cur_length += 1

print()
```

Example run:
```shell
❯ python run_gpt2.py
Prompt: Bill Gates founded
Bill Gates founded Microsoft in 1999. He has been a member of the board since 2005.
...
```

Similarly other decoding methods such as beam search, random sampling, top-p or top-k sampling can be implemented on host.

## Handling pre/post-processing nodes

For ML models, sometimes the pre-processing of inputs and post-precessing steps of outputs would be included in the exported model.
These pre/post-processing steps might contain handling dynamic size/type inputs and making them static.
Since we're AOT compiling into static model, these steps/nodes would cause issue while compiling.
So the pre/post-processing steps need to be removed from the models before compiling.

We can use the Model Preparator tool to handle these models.
The following sections define the **PRE_PLUGIN** and **POST_PLUGIN** sections of the model preparator configuration
which handles the pre-processing nodes and post-processing nodes of the models respectively.

### PRE_PLUGIN

* The PRE_PLUGIN field in the configuration is a boolean field indicating the application of pre-processing optimizations if any.
* There are some optimizations for TensorFlow models such as removing the following control-flow operators:
    * Switch-Merge Optimizer: This removes the `tf.cond()` operator by evaluating the predication of the switch operator and tracing the respective path. A switch operator whose predication flag is not constant cannot be optimized.
    * Loop Unrolling: This unrolls the `tf.while_loop()` into number of loop iterations to make it a static DAG. It cannot be applied when the loop trip-count is not fixed or when there are nested loops.
    * TensorArray Optimization: This replaces operators like TensorArray, TensorArrayWrite, TensorArrayRead, TensorArrayGather, TensorArrayScatter, etc. with known and supported operators.

### POST_PLUGIN

* The POST_PLUGIN field in the configuration is another boolean field indicating the post-processing optimization. This is mostly applicable to the Object Detection CV models.
* QAic has two options for Anchor Box Processing (ABP) and Non-Maximal Suppression (NMS):
    * SMART-NMS: It is a software application to help run the post-processing of Object Detection models. Enabling this in the configuration will add the Smart-NMS post-processing to the model.
    * QDetect: It is a known custom operator for QAic to enable running the post-processing of Object Detection models on the device. Enabling this in the configuration will generate models with the QDetect custom operator.
