# Model Accuracy


Model Accuracy tools are used to:
1.	Assess the accuracy of model,
2.	Identify best Quantization parameters and 
3.	Identify the nodes causing accuracy drop.



## Accuracy Evaluator Tool

Once the model is successfully compiled[hyperlink], the next step would be to assess the accuracy of your model using the [Accuracy Evaluator Tool](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/resource/topics/HD-PT790-993A/network-accuracy-analysis.html#network-accuracy-analysis_Introduction).
The Accuracy Evaluator Tool would: 
1.	Execute the original model with a reference platform configured by user (ex. ONNX Runtime) and also execute the model on AIC Runtime. 
2.	Evaluate the accuracy of the model by comparing both the outputs gathered in the above step. Various in-built metrics (ex. topk) or a custom metric can be used to evaluate the accuracy of the model.

If the FP32 model does not meet your throughput or latency expectations, The Accuracy Evaluator tool can be used to identify the best PGQ combination as well. Please refer to this example[hyperlink]
Example configuration files for many models can be found here: /opt/qti-aic/tools/qaic-pytools/model_configs/public


## Accuracy Analyzer Tool 

The [Accuracy Analyzer Tool](https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/resource/topics/HD-PT790-993A/network-accuracy-analysis.html#network-accuracy-analysis_Accuracy-Debug) is used to debug accuracy loss. If the accuracy of the model does not meet expectations, this tool can be used to identify the nodes which are causing the accuracy degradation. 
The tool uses One Shot Snooping and Layerwise Snooping techniques to identify the nodes causing accuracy degradation. Once the culprit nodes are identified, the nodes can be configured to run in a higher precision so that the accuracy goals are achieved.
Please refer to this example [Jupyter Notebook](https://github.qualcomm.com/qranium/cloud-ai/tree/main/tutorials/NLP/Accuracy-Analyzer-Intermediate) 
