# **Performance tuning** 
Throughput (inferences per second) and latency (time per inference) tuning techniques for Cloud AI platforms are discussed in this section. 

## Key Performance Parameters 
Cores, Batch Size, Instances (a.k.a activations) and Set-size are the key performance parameters that need to be tuned to extract the best performance. 

Cores and Batch Size are compile parameters.
Instances and Set-size are runtime parameters.


### Core 
Cloud AI Platforms contain numerous AI cores. Each AI core contains one or more scalar, vector and tensor engines which provide a rich instruction set to accelerate ML operations. A model can be compiled for one or more AI cores.   

### Instance (a.k.a activation)
Instance refers to the compiled binary of a model executing inferences on a set of AI cores. Let's say bert-large was compiled for 2 AI cores and the Cloud AI card has 14 AI cores. Each instance will run on 2 AI cores. Up to 7 instances (on 14 AI cores) can be executed in parallel.  

### Batch Size 
Batch size refers to the number of input elements inferred by an instance. 

### Set-size 
Set-size denotes the number of inferences that can be queued up on the host per activation. Set-size helps hide host side overhead by pipelining inferences. 

### Instance and Batch size 
The product of number of instances and batch size provides the total input samples that can be inferred in parallel. 

### Cores and Instances 
The product of 'number of instances' and 'number of AI cores used per instance' cannot exceed the total number of AI cores available on the Cloud AI platform/card.

## Optimizing for Best Throughput 
Model Configurator is a hardware-in-loop test tool that runs through various configurations and identifies the best throughput configuration for a model. Refer to ## Fixme tutorial for the optimizing for best throughput workflow with an example. 

## Optimizing for Least Latency 
The algorithm to identify least latency config is 
1. Set batch size = 1
2. Compile the model starting from max AI cores available to 1 AI core
    a. Execute inference on the device with set-size = 1
    b. Measure latency per input 
3. Extract the latency for all the configs and find the one with the least latency. 

Refer to ## Fixme tutorial for the optimizing for least latency workflow with an example.

## Optimizing for best Throughput for a given latency target 
Optimizing for best throughput and optimizing for least latency provides the developer with a few configs (with a range of througput/latency values). Developers can pick the config that best fits their requirements. 

Refer to ## Fixme tutorial for the optimizing for best throughput to fit within a latency profile workflow with an example.

